Over the next few minutes, I'm going to
share the exact SAS SEO strategy that's
driven millions [music] in revenue for
clients like RB2B, Events, Proposify,
and many more well-known fast growth
tech companies. We'll [music] share the
exact strategies, tactics, and playbooks
so you can exactly copy them yourself.
Let's dive in.
First up, what the heck is SEO for SAS?
Well, in short, it's about showing up
top of Google organic search. When dream
clients are searching directly for your
solution, software, comparing options,
or struggling with an expensive problem
you solve, as well as showing up top of
AI search like Google AI overviews, LLMs
like Chat, GBT, Perplexity, and many
more when these target clients are in
market for your solution. And SEO used
to be thought of of going after traffic
at all costs, trying to get maximum
visitors on your site when it's really
not about that. We'd much prefer high
intent prospects that are in market as
opposed to maximizing topfunnel traffic
that may just be looking to get
information and get out. As well as
that, a lot of topfunnel traffic is
being wiped out by AI overviews. Chat
GPT, you'll see impressions are going up
a clickthroughs and traffic dropping. So
that's why you want to focus on high
sales intent, bottom of funnel, dream
clients in market and ready to talk to
sales, grab a demo or sign up. So we'll
talk through that full process, but why
does SEO really matter for SAS? Well, so
many SAS companies invest tons in things
like paid media, events, outbound sales,
and usually SEO and AEO is scraping the
barrel when it comes to budget or
resource allocation. But you probably
know already the cost of ads is rising,
rising, and rising. Heavily VCbacked
companies can't always rely on this
rented land, whether that's social,
whether that's paid media. The good
thing about SEO is you're building
evergreen assets that can compound and
scale up over time and reduce your
reliance on things like paid ads,
outbound sales, and also reinforce all
these efforts by building mind share on
both Google organic and LLMs. So, let's
quickly talk about the 955 rule. You
might have heard of it already. What it
basically means is at any one given time
only 5% of your total addressable
market. So, the whole market that you
could potentially serve, only 5% is
going to be in market ready to talk to
sales about your solution. So instead of
wasting time on that 95% that might be
messing around, searching for
information or similar, let's focus on
exactly what those dream clients in that
5% search when they're ready to have
that sales convo, grab a sign up or grab
a demo. Right now, we do need to think
about the rest of the funnel. But first
off, you want to exhaust that 5% and
then you might slowly work your way up
funnel to build mind share and position
your solution as the painkiller when
folks have expensive problems that you
solve. So, one of the first things you
want to do once you've nailed your
customer research, you know exactly who
you're targeting, the ICP, the
industries they reside in, and more. You
want to build out what I call money
keywords. This is where you can target
that 5% of the market that are in market
for your solution. Now, and what I
usually recommend is building out a
Google sheet or similar with ideally
sales team, customer success team, and
anyone else that's involved in the sales
and marketing process that can add their
two cents here. And essentially those
four columns would be what's every way
that a dream client could refer to our
solution. The second column is what are
the industries that we serve best, have
the expensive problem we solve, are
motivated to solve it, have a lot of
cash to invest in our offer, and we've
historically sold well into. Column
three is what are all the competitors
that come up on sales calls almost to an
annoying level. And column four is
what's our dream client's job to be
done, what their struggling moments,
what the problems that they face that we
can solve or how do they get the job
done today perhaps in house or
struggling with spreadsheets or
something like that. And to give you
some examples, so if we're talking about
kind of what's every way that someone
could refer to our solution, if we
provided a payroll SAS, it could be
payroll software, best payroll tools,
payroll platforms, and various other
ways that folks could prefer to offer.
Column two might be industries, and that
could be education, finance, HR, and so
on. Column four, what are the
competitors? Well, it could be check
writers, it could be paychecks, it could
be ADP, and any other competitors that
come up on sales calls. In column four
could be struggling with manage things
on spreadsheets or causing churn because
there's too much internal admin work or
so on and so forth. And you basically
want to build these money keywords so
you can work out long tail prompts or
keywords that dream clients search when
they're in market for your offering. You
want to prioritize the ones if you're
using a tool like hrefs. Prioritize the
ones with high sales intent but low
keyword difficulty. So that could be
something like if you're a SAS company,
I always recommend going for competitor
alternative keywords first. They
generally have a very low difficulty.
For example, RB2B visitor identification
software SAS. One of the first money
keywords we did for them was lead feeder
alternatives. That's a really big
competitor for them. We ranked them top
really, really fast. I think that was in
around a month or so of working together
for a top 10 lead feeder alternatives of
2026 article. Close to zero difficulty,
but gets 100 plus searches per month.
Those are really high sales intent. No
one searches competitor alternative
keywords for fun. They do it when
they're genuinely evaluating options and
looking to kind of make a decision
fairly soon. and other ways you can
leverage money keywords are putting them
together like best X software for
industry or competitor one versus
competitor 2 or how to fix struggling
moments. So putting all those together,
working out which ones have a high sales
intent, prioritize the low difficulty
and then build best-in-class content
which we'll talk about in a sec. So when
it comes to actually ranking once you've
made your exhaustive list of money
keywords we're prioritizing those low
difficulty but high sales intent ones
like competitor alternative, best X
software for industry and so on. The
simplest way of working out what type of
content you need to build is to
literally Google it. So for example, if
we were trying to rank for lead feeder
alternatives like we ranked top recently
for RB2B, we would just Google that
search term or search it up. Likewise on
chat GBT, see what type of page ranks
well, which is called assessing the page
intent. And typically for those type of
things, it's usually a listical based
article like we evaluated the top 10
lead feeder alternatives of 2026.
Usually what you do is you'd have the
website.com/leadfeeder
alternatives as the URL. You'd have lead
view alternatives within the H1, the
single H1 on the page. And then the page
format would be a quick intro. You
position your own tool or platform or
software as number one, but you leverage
a custom research to talk about why do
folks choose us, how we differentiated
in the marketplace, customer reviews,
social proof, pros, where a great fit,
where we're not a good fit, show the
product in action so people can see
under the bonnet so people can see the
actual aha moment of when your product
clicks into play. So for RB to be where
someone is identified on your website
and that pings the visitor into Slack
for the sales team to get on. And
likewise, if it was a landing page,
perhaps you saw ranked effectively.
Maybe you go for the problem agitation
solution framework. You try and
completely blow out the water, whatever
competitor pages ranking top, try and
make your page more authoritative,
useful, helpful, add an FAQ section
addressing real sales questions, pain
points, jobs to be done. And then what
you'll find is for those low difficulty
keywords, you'll be able to rank with
content alone and basic technical SEO.
For more competitive terms, you'll need
to earn back links from niche relevant
sites. Partners are a great play here or
guesting on podcast as well as brand
mentions. So other websites in your
niche or other listical articles where
they talk about your product, mention
your brand and category. That's a really
good way to ramp up your visibility and
chat GBT and other LLMs like Google AI
overviews as well. And then the last
piece of the puzzle is doing everything
we've said but at speed. Giant
competitors, they might have a lot of
revenue but they're going to move really
slow. They have a lot of red tape. They
have a lot of layers of management. So
everything's going to take time for them
to sign off through various folks. So
building the money keywords could take
them months. Building a strategy could
take more months. Building the content,
getting it signed off, getting their
webdev to then eventually publish and
eventually going live could take
anywhere from six months onwards I've
seen for a single article to get
published. So the advantage smaller
companies, scrappy startups, smaller
businesses or mediumsiz businesses have
is they can move way fast from concept
to strategy to execution. So, if you
build your exhaustive money keywords for
inmarket buyers, prioritize the kind of
lower difficulty terms, build
best-in-class content that's going to
rank, resonate, and convert with dream
clients, earn niche relevant backlinks,
earn brand mentions, do that at a
consistent rate that's going to be
repeatable for your business, and you
can slowly chip away at those slowmoving
competitors, and start ranking on both
Google organic and chat GBT and LLMs for
money terms, and start driving inbound
pipeline as fast as 90 days from
publishing. So, if you heard enough and
you want help implementing this entire
system for your B2B tech, SAS or service
company, why not grab a call with me
over at breaking B2B.com. We can learn
where you're at now, where you'd like to
get to, see if you're a good match to
start driving pipeline as fast as 90
days with SEO and AO. So, hit the link
in the description or head over to
breaking b2b.com or if you're not ready
yet, grab my 90 days to revenue SEO
playbook at breakingb2b.com and hit that
newsletter tab or try out the weekly
podcast breaking B2B. And with that,
I'll catch you on the next